---
permalink: /
title: "Welcome to my personal website!"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

Hi Everyone! My name is Rui Zhang. My research interests include digital twin systems, computational geomechanics, geotechnical engineering design, application of artificial intelligence in civil engineering, underground infrastructure management, and intelligent transportation systems (ITS). I am also an Associate Fellow of the Higher Education Academy in U.K. My research goal is to develop the advanced technology for intelligent infrastructure to meet different challenges. To achieve the goal, I have some research fundamentals in three main aspects: sensing monitoring, numerical modeling, and data analytics. I first built a solid foundation of geotechnical engineering during my PhD study project: ‘Limit analysis of unsaturated soil problems using discontinuity layout optimization’. Then I go beyond geotechnical engineering and conduct interdisciplinary studies. During postdoc studies, I accumulated deep knowledge of sensor technologies, structural dynamics, control techniques, and artificial intelligence. Based on that, I and my partner developed noise logger-based leak diagnosis system. I also simulated tunnel as a system and coordinated a cyber-physical testbed to predict hazard effect and guide scenario planning for tunnel operations.

Research Experience
======
1.Limit analysis of unsaturated soil problems using discontinuity layout optimization under nonlinear and non-associative yield conditions:

Many of the geotechnical engineering stability problems involve unpredictable natural disasters (e.g., earthquakes) or anthropogenic hazards (e.g., blasts). An efficient numerical modeling method is thus critical for both early warning of hazards and rapid condition assessment for engineers to design the soil structures, thus maximizing their contribution to environmental and social needs. Limit analysis is a widely used method for determining the collapse load of soil constructions. Conventional limit analysis theory assumes that the soil is plastic with a linear failure criterion and follows the associative flow rule. However, a linear failure criterion is often an idealization of an actual nonlinear response for which available analytical techniques are limited. The associative flow rule always overestimates the volumetric strains along shearing planes for frictional soils, potentially leading to unsafe failure loads and unrealistic failure mechanisms. Therefore, both nonlinear and non-associative yield conditions require further consideration within the framework of limit analysis.
To address the challenge, I developed a new fully general solution procedure for generating upper bound multi-wedge rigid block mechanisms for continuum soils with a nonlinear power-law failure criterion. This approach utilizes a curved interface that obeys the nonlinear yield function flow rule along its full length. The ability of the proposed nonlinear upper bound solution to collect data about the shear and normal stresses at every point along the failure surface is discussed. The issue of non-associativity is investigated in the context of discrete rigid block limit analysis. I developed two new methods to obtain non-associative solutions by separately quantifying dilation and shearing friction for frictional materials: (1) permutation method; (2) rapid direct method. The proposed non-associative procedures are applied to the determination of the load factors of rock slopes.


2.Smart noise logger-based leak diagnosis system and consultancy study on modeling of failure of ferrous water mains:

The research on diagnosis and modeling of pipe failure is a key step towards improving the Hong Kong Water Distribution Networks and contributing to a better understanding of leaks/bursts in pipes. As a result, HKWDN and elsewhere could be efficiently preserved and cost-effectively maintained. The main users of this project are academics, contractors, municipal personnel, and other interested stakeholders. For municipalities and contractors, this project provides the following benefits: (1) provide cutting-edge AI-driven models for predicting leaks/bursts in the WDN and (2) study the impact of soil characteristics on water pipe failure.
As key personnel, one of my main responsibilities is to study on leak detection in water-filled pipes through the application of wavelet transforms and decomposition technique to signals from different sensors such as Noise logger and Accelerometer. I used noise logger-based correlator sensor to collect acoustic signal, transformed the signal to waveshape figures, and analyzed the signal by screening. Then I used different wavelet transforms and decomposition technique to extract features from acoustic signals. I adopted AI technique (i.e., statistical based method) to solve the leak location problem from many data sets generated by feature engineering. During this process I developed a new workflow based on R-studio and other smart software such as Rapidminer and Orange. I also used Python to conduct deep leaning analysis for classification/regression work in this project. In parallel, I conducted numerical modeling of soil-pipe interaction throughout pipe service life. I have finished the REVIEW for numerical analysis of the interactions between soil and pipelines of water infrastructure. The FE models I developed could be directly applicable to address the management challenges of water mains infrastructure.

3.A smart digital twin framework using advanced modelling and data analytics for monitoring and management of city-scale underground transportation infrastructure:

The objective of this project is to develop advanced digital modelling and data analytic techniques for a smart digital twin framework to diagnosis, prognosis, and intervene potential faults in underground transportation infrastructure. The development of LTA in Singapore calls for novel techniques to preserve the efficiency and integrity of tunnels for rail networks. The monitoring and management of tunnels are challenging, mainly because of their complex environment conditions and limited access time for inspection once in service. Conventional approaches for tunnel inspection are either direct measurements or surface faults detection using computer vision, with limited capability of fault diagnosis/prognosis for tunnel management. As an emerging concept, the digital twin offers great opportunities to enable more systematic and in-depth evaluation and management of tunnels.
In this project my task is to provide an effective digital-twin solution to enable faults diagnosis, performance prediction, and informed decision-making in response to tunnel network faults/events. To achieve this, I established a cyber-physical loop for digital twin by linking the simulation environment and physical structures through information and interventions. I developed heterogenous modelling of integrated underground transportation network to capture emergent and complex behavior of tunnels.


